Update ms (#318)
raiden-network/spec: monitoring_service.rst

##################

Overview
========

Monitoring services watch open payment channels when the user is not online. In
case one channel partner closes a channel while the counterparty is offline (or

> doesn’t react for 80% of the settlement timeout after close has been called),

Reviewer: The 80% is not the whole truth. We have a time range when it reacts and use an approximation for the settlement period. We could at least add a `~` to not trick anyone into thinking this is precise.

> the monitoring service sends the latest balance proof to the channel smart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the monitoring service sends the latest balance proof to the TokenNetwork
```
This is just as short and more precise.

contract and thus ensures correct settlement of the channel.

To do this a Monitoring Service (MS) listens to :ref:`Monitor Requests <Monitor
Request>` in a public Matrix room. An MR is accompanied by a reward for acting
on it. Based on this reward, the MS can decide to monitor a channel and store
the corresponding MRs.

Whenever a channel is closed by calling ``closeChannel`` and if the client did
not react itself, the MS will call ``updateNonClosingBalanceProof`` with the

> submitted MR on behalf of its client. For that action then MS can then claim the

Reviewer 2: I see one too many `then`.  Maybe drop the first one?

Author: Thanks. This should be an `the`.

    :alt: Monitoring Service - Flow Chart
    :width: 900px

Design of the Monitoring Service
================================

Requirements
------------

* Sybil Attack resistance (i.e. no one should be able to announce an unlimited number of possibly faulty services)
* Some degree of redundancy (ability to register a balance proof with multiple competing monitoring services)

In the current stage we opt for a simple design which is expected to help reach
a working state faster. Therefore some user friendly features are currently out
of scope.

Monitoring Service Payment
--------------------------

> The MS can claim its reward after successfully submitting its client’s balance proof update. This is only allowed when the Monitoring Service is registered in the Service Registry. For more infos see the :ref:`ServiceRegistry` contract.

Reviewer 2: `claim()` works even after the MS's registration expires.

`monitor()` requires a valid registration.

The payment is paid out from a deposit in the :ref:`UserDeposit` Contract (UDC).

> Ideally, only one MS submits the latest BP to the SC to avoid unnecessary gas

Reviewer: Should be one of
* avoid unnecessary gas costs
* avoid wasting gas

> usage (for more infos see the description of the :ref:`Monitoring Service contract <MonitoringServiceContract>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
usage (for more information see the description of the :ref:`Monitoring Service contract <MonitoringServiceContract>`.
```

MS Reliability
--------------

The Monitoring Service itself is split into two components to increase reliability and lower the attack surface.

* The request collector is a simple component that connects to the Matrix network and listens only for :ref:`Monitor Requests <Monitor Request>`, which are written to a database.
* The monitoring service itself just reads these MRs from the database and otherwise listens and reacts to blockchain events.

Privacy
-------

The recipient and the actual transferred amounts are hidden by providing a
hashed balance proof. This provides some sort of privacy even if it can
potentially be recalculated. For reference see `this issue. <https://github.com/raiden-network/raiden/issues/1309>`_

Message Format
==============

> Monitoring Services uses JSON format to exchange the data. For description of

Reviewer 2: Either "Services-->Service" or "uses-->use".

::

>     ecdsa_recoverable(privkey, sha3_keccak("\x19Ethereum Signed Message:\n221"

Reviewer: Nice catch! These are so easy to miss when updating the spec.

+-----------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| signature             | bytes      | Elliptic Curve 256k1 signature on the above data from participant paying the reward        |
+-----------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Appendix A: Interfaces
======================

Broadcast Interface
-------------------

Client's request to store a balance proof will be broadcasted using Matrix as a
transport layer. A public room will be available for anyone to join - clients
will post balance proofs to the chatroom and Monitoring Services picks them up.

Web3 Interface
--------------

Monitoring Service are required to have a synced Ethereum node with an enabled JSON-RPC interface. All blockchain
operations are performed using this connection.

Event Filtering
'''''''''''''''

MS must filter events for each on-chain channel that corresponds to the submitted balance proofs.
On ``ChannelClosed`` and ``NonClosingBalanceProofUpdated`` events state the channel was closed with the Monitoring

> Service must call ``updateNonClosingBalanceProof`` with the respective latest balance proof provided by its client.

Reviewer 2: Maybe they should call `MonitoringService.monitor()`.  If they directly call `TokenNetwork.updateNonClosingBalanceProof()` directly, they cannot get the reward anymore.

Author: Updates this above and removed this whole paragraph.

Appendix B: Security Analysis
=============================

This is inspired by the security analysis in the `PISA paper <https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~iddo/pisa.pdf>`_.

State Privacy
-------------

Blinded BPs are published to the MS as part of the Monitor Request in the matrix room and then submitted to the smart
contract.

Fair Exchange
-------------

Clients can freely choose the reward for the MS, so it is easy for him to choose the amount in a way that makes the
exchange attractive for himself. The client can’t know if a MS started monitoring his payment channel, so he can’t use
such feedback to arrive at a reward where he knows that the deal is attractive for both him and the MS. Neither can he
recognize if there is no such possible reward.
The MS on the other hand can freely choose to ignore requests when the reward is too low, so he will only choose
requests that he deems fairly rewarded. If the MS ignores the client’s request, the client keeps his deposit and it can
be used by other MSs or for later BPs. In summary, the exchange is fair for both parties, but there is a high likelihood
that no exchange will happen at all.

Non-frameability
----------------

> MSs can put the clients channel deposit at risk by ignoring all client requests. But since a MS can’t force other MSs to

Reviewer 2: "client's"
